so in our last videos we have seen
different techniques which can be used
to design our CMOS logic which included
the most like pseudo n MOS tri-state
circuits and grata CMOS circuits now in
this session we talked about technique
which is known as the dynamic CMOS logic
circuits the dynamic CMOS logic circuits
based on the concept where it operates
in two to two modes the first mode is
like it is a it is a charting state or
it is also known as a pre charging shape
when our p MOS is on and all n MOS is
off like it charges the output capacitor
here and the other one is our evaluation
phase where it made the capacitor
discharge so so Makassar thing can
emerge pre charging circuit like pre
charging both more the operation
activate about the hedge of minus 5
signals I have a zero if we see here you
know it here for this dynamic CMOS logic
circuits so ISTA muhammara positive 5
signal here he basically is an Moscow or
is for AP motion control Quran it's
Emma's Co like Java file signal 0 over
to this and mostly be in cutoff so it is
it is turned off and Phi 0 means this P
Mo's will be turned on if this beam was
turned on it will like it is it is a
short circuit here in the current will
flow to all this path here and it will
charge T C out like it which are the
output chemists er so it means that our
output is pre-charged VDD value on and
that is true or MP cobalt and P the
transistor so this this is known as a
pre charge P charge state when our Phi
level is 0 here and it charges the
output capacitor the next phase is known
as the evaluation phase in this space
like
when Phi is equal to one it means that
this n Mo's is now this n Mo's is no
turn on and this beam was off so what
will happen is this capacitor can
discharge through this enfant volume so
I mean has a tank a large capacitor will
discharge hose at I through this in fact
because this this part is not clear
licking your issue have we okay this
discharging depends on or input inputs
like B a B and C inputs so our inputs
control whether the output will be
discharged or not for example in a case
when like a is equal to 1 B is equal to
1 and C is not like fee is equal to 0
then this path is not clear for
discharging so this the output will not
discharge and here the output dependence
represents the D state of all this n
Mo's here because if all if all these
inputs are 1 and then output will be
discharged to a to 0 so it means that
this this represents of rally dot would
know so what problem we have for this
type of circuits this this beauty issue
is known as the a charge hearing and
charge sharing means like in case there
is no path present to this ground here -
like through this end was the enfant ROG
X and this n MOS to ground so if there
is no path available that directly
connects these two bound in that case
the charge is shared between the nodes
here for example if you see here in this
circuit we have designed a logic which
is known as an end gate like this
circuit here this represents a NAND gate
logic if we observe that the second uses
less transistors than static CMOS like
this
this logic implements our language but
if you have seen earlier three input
NAND gate uses mode number of
transistors as compared to this one this
one because we have pulldown network and
we have we had earlier a pull-up network
agent 3 and most are required for
pulldown network and 3 P Mo's are
required for our pull-up network so this
uses less number of resistors and
obviously if if we are using less number
of transistors the area consumption is
also reduced and the fall time and can
be reduced by increasing the size of
like of infant's this is this is what we
have been certain earlier like if you if
you want to reduce the fall time or if
you want to do is reduce the rise time
then you have to basically increase the
size of almost nodes
let us consider this example here of
this NAND gate and we basically we will
understand how this charge is shedding
happen between the nodes here like if we
consider a point here and then we have a
charge a node here and then we have
third node here at point like this
disjunction so let us let us make some
delegations and we understand what the
charge sharing means and how it affects
odd or more sorts and in dynamic CMOS
logic circuits we have to tackle the
issue of charge sharing like in our
these dynamic CMOS logic we have Livity
charge shading issue we have seen
earlier like our charge the kids reduces
the output voltage that was hand on our
output node but another problem occurs
when our fine signal is fun like we are
not considering a case when our Phi
signal was 0 and our N Mo's was turned
on so that there was no path to be down
so we are considering
our clock signal Y is equal to 1 this
means our like if we have this down
network and we had this case here like
this 5 is equal to 1 it means there is
no direct parent there is no direct
demos but we have our direct current it
is N Mo's and this is going on so the
current we are assuming like the current
can be discharged through this point but
there would be a charge like sharing
because of the parasitic load of esters
for example we are we were considering a
case where we have designed a set it
somewhat like this one here we have
three inputs pulldown network then we
have n Mo's which is basically connected
to our 5 5 which is equal to 1 in this
case we have these three inputs and we
have our output node registered that is
present here so this is our C out this
is our V out that is this really
positive and negative so there are two
different node capacitors present like
one node capacitor is is present here
this is our first mode professor the
second node capacitor appears on this
point like this is our second node
capacitor this is known as with C 1 this
is known as a C 2 so the capacitor we
have we have two different capacitors C
1 and C 2 these two are our load
capacitance
and obviously be corresponding were to
use all we want and we do on these on
these capacitors so we assume that at
time at T is equal to 0 Phi is equal to
1 it means that this portion of our
circuit like this portion here this is
in cutoff like all the moss is in cutoff
and obviously there is no direct path
between VDD and Z out so that the
capacitor may get charged so we as you
we can assume at time T is equal to 0 we
out was actually this is represented as
we out of 0 this is charged at we are
assuming that it is such value and we
also assume the voltage is at V 1 and V
2 are 0 they are not charged charged and
the voltage is the voltage V 0 at this
time like at this time T is equal to 0
we can say that the charge that is
present at this Q this see how it is
represented by Q is equal to VDD and C
out so this is all maximum charge so the
worst case of our chart chaining occurs
when our input voltages are set somewhat
like is equal to 1 B is equal to 1 and C
is equal to 0 this means there is no
direct path between our like this is
this one is our in cutoff region this
MOSFET here if this is in cutoff region
so there is no direct path between
between our output node this node and on
ground that appears here so in this case
there is no direct discharge until
account but there will be some
discharging through C 1 and C 2
so in ideal case what we want is but
what we want is that the output voltage
should remain high but that will not be
the case because we have our the node
capacitances which are C 1 and C 2 so
the current will flow out of our output
capacitor because like because our C out
V out is higher as compared to V 1 and V
2 so the charge that flows out of all
capacitor can be represented by like
this entity presented by I and we can
say that when this current flows V out
will decrease and while the voltage is
at C 1 here and C 2 here will increase
and this will continue until we really
get our voltage level at V equal to V
out is equal to V 1 which is equal to V
2 and this will be our final value and
the total charge can be written as like
the total charge Q this can be written
as C out the F plus C 1 V F and plus C 2
V F because we have VF s final value on
all all terminals so this will be equal
to C out plus C 1 plus C 2 and V F and
if we know that the during the principle
of charge conservation this must be
equal to an initial charge like this is
our final charge this must be equal to
our initial charge this initial charge
was C out VDD so if we equate these two
expressions over here we will get we
will get C out VDD which is equal to C
out plus C 1 plus C 2 and this will be F
now we have to solve this expression for
V F because we want to know the final
value this will be equal to C out the
by three out plus c1 plus c2 and this is
multiplied by VDD and looking at this
expression here we can say that the G
term this term here this term here is
less than one because here we have C out
and we're here we have our addition here
in Co so we can say using this
expression we actually be less than
equal to will be less than so it reduces
the overall output voltage the effect of
charge chain can be like reduced by this
discharge hearing effect can be read you
will try see out if CC out is greater
than greater than C 1 plus C 2 so then
we may ignore this expression if we make
no ignore this expression like the F
would be approximately equal to this
would be approximately equal to D so we
can say we can approximate the final
value to VD D but that may not be an
easy task it is difficult to achieve the
capacitor values because they are
dependent on the layout sizes so it is
difficult to design a capacitor that
satisfies our requirements for our final
voltages in charge shiri so this was our
discussion for charge sharing so we have
seen that how charge sharing effects the
MOSFETs and and the operation of this
that modes with so an advanced version
of this dynamic CMOS logic circuits is
known as the dominant logic in this
domain of logic circuit it adds an
inverter to the output like we had seen
this see this circuit here earlier this
circuit represents V this circuit
basically represents the the dynamic
CMOS logic circuit but we add an
inverter at the output when we add an
inverter at the output and
we have we can see that when our Phi is
equal to zero it means like CX the
output capacitor will be charged to
really like - it will be charged through
this point and obviously or we can say
that if this is charged to VDD the our
output will be zero but during the
evaluation phase we have this Phi is
equal to 1 like this input this Phi set
it is equal to 1 if this is 1 this means
that this as n was will be on so this is
the same logic way that we have talked
about earlier but what happens at this
CX chemists are the F this is 1 our
output remains high and if our output
events hide obviously that depends on
our a ence serie points if our output
events high are like V out will be equal
to 0 but in case when this goes to 0
through this through this like this part
here then C X will be 0 and our V out
will be like Vinny so this basically
represents non-inverting logic circuit
because we have seen that these dynamic
CMOS represents our inverted logic
because we have implemented for example
we can see that if we have to implement
and engage using dynamic CMOS logic
circuits we just have to add inverter at
the output and similarly if we have to
apply an or gate we just have to apply
our like a not gate at the outputs
output point here so this dynamic CMOS
lower the time dynamic so the sorry is
the dominant logic circuits represents
the non-inverting logic and the extended
version of this Domino logic circuit
says dominocus gate circuits in this
domain of cascade circuits we just add
up multiple stages here and all that all
the on all the stages we
we kept a stir here and all in all these
stages and we have an inverter almost
ages have same fire obviously
controlling signal defy signal is same
for all these base stages and during the
speed P charge state like when alpha is
equal to zero this this basically is
turned on all these MOSFETs here these
are turned on if these more through most
nuts are on it means that the capacitors
will be charged to a voltage so all
these capacitors c1 c2 and c3 here all
these are charged to our maximum value
that is VDD and all our outputs like f1
we have a 2 we have a 3 all these values
are 0 so what happens in the evaluation
phase like in evaluation phase 5 will be
equal to 1 that means that the chain
reaction can like the chain goes in
devaluation fits like this this whole
chain here this goes in evaluation phase
so this is known as a chain reaction
that starts from state's first stage to
deal to the last one it means that this
reaction like this is this point here
this stays one here if this is charged
then it will start like depending on
this input head it will go to 0 if this
is this growth goes to 0 it means that
this point goes 1 is this goes to 1 it
means this part is clear now and this
can go to 0 as well so if this goes to 0
like this this current starts to open
from here on from this part here the
output will draw up to like the drop to
VDD so if this is 1 it means this is now
clear this is now conducting and this
stage can also go to 0 and the output of
3 can go to 1 so yeah how a chain
reaction and just made the first States
is hot water or like depending on the
condition of our
was first stage how are you eh a chain
reaction basically is that a semana
pasada as this is indicated here like
chain reaction Joey can be broken like
King the kingpin March and it syndrome
would start like stop who supplier if
one of like stages remains high other
disease situation man like for example
multiple hompage you the stage right
over the past input head at this point
here you know my input is zero here
appear so it means even to the point I
get discharged hanging order even though
these two are discharged algorithm is up
and tomorrow even a point so that he is
go discharging more than ever so it
means that this stage when is high of
yes raise hurry a change in Hiyori so it
means this this chain reaction can be
broken depending on the condition of one
stage so it's a stage give it as a chain
reaction so control care after that can
be stopped so there are some limitations
for this domino cascade performance
first condition is don't you know logic
gates are specifically used in obviously
knee gaskets so the other thing is
double cascade must have evaluation
interval large enough like for example
this variation interval if this
evolution interval is not large then one
stage can against against stand to de
maximum value so this stage cannot fall
if this stage does not fall the next
stage for like these stage for if we
have it here that will remain high as
well so if we want all stages to fall it
means that all it means that the
evaluation interval must be large so
this that will allow all stages to
discharge or all we can say that the
output will propagate from hours from
stage one to the to the last stage so
what factors
limit
this evaluation interval like we have
seen earlier there are two different
like problems one is known as charge
sharing and the other one is known as
charge leakage
these two are limiting factors which
basically basically affect the interval
of evaluation phase to overcome the
issue of shorter evaluation intervals
charge deeper circuits are used for
example we have a single f-18 charged
capacitor adhere what was he up ap Moses
okay measure Graham's exam she collected
if this PMO's is down it means care
about a path see each of cxi a heavy
shot charged a Giga gay drop thing about
scepter through leakage current how one
first two conditions and Jamison who had
a posse eight to see exhale you
discharged receptor a condition in NK
multiple benefits sorry
turned on no sign on a value PASOK path
he has a pungent okay is co-op a
optimist ground paths a linker today or
tomorrow capacitor discharge water so it
means there is a large current that will
flow from this path and the other case
is when are like one of our n words and
n FET is thing in cutoff region and that
basically limitlessly the flow of
current through this path so in that
case the charge shading and charge
linkage will occur it means there's a
minut current that will flow from this
path to two grounds obviously that that
that is basically the charge sharing and
charge leakage to tackle that minut
current this and this week p MOS is used
so that it can keep discharge here and
the other technique that is used to
charge to basically to charge these two
people is charge here is use an inverter
here like we use this inversion here so
that it turns on this PMO's and then the
charge basically will stay on what
happens in case when this circuit
discharges from this pub
okay you sir tomorrow is parts it is
Jahjaga so it means by a passing you
just see Excel pellet VDD Petra - yup
discharged philosopher when this this v
VX basically er CX discharges it means r
VX goes low a girl must react slo-moes I
get it means this not gate is now the
output of this not gate is 1 and this P
motion will be turned off so it means
there is no link between this people say
so we don't want we don't we don't need
to have a strong the weaker emos so a
multiple see half a charge keeper
circuit was India vector okay I'm on a
charge
Oh Likud's charge shading or charge Lee
it's a drop hanging on Agatha or hamari
voltage go holder time unless can while
passive allopath clear / he has it
discharging sword mother so this was it
for our dynamic CMOS logic circuits we
have seen two different types one is non
dynamic CMOS logic circuits and the
other one is all domino cascade perform
again the domino cascade circuits and we
have also seen that how our charge
keeper circuits can be used to basically
to keep the charge at our output nodes
so I will name you have it and with a
practice exercise it says that draw a
circuit diagram for dynamic logic gate
so like you have to use the dynamic CMOS
logic and obviously using minimum number
of transistors so obviously if there is
a option to simplify this expression you
have to do that and the function is
given here you you just have to draw
dynamic CMOS logic gate of this
expression here so that's it for this
session I will see you next session